Update release notes for version 2.1.0: add new features, breaking changes, and bug fixes (#720)
RevealBi/Documentation: docs/web/release-notes.md

# Release Notes

## 2.1.0 (July 7th, 2026)

### Breaking Changes

- Removed the legacy `$.ig` and `RevealApi` global objects.

### New Features

- New data source: SQLite, with support for custom queries.
- New data source: Cube.
- New data source: DuckDB, with support for file and MotherDuck databases, custom queries, and stored procedures (DuckDB macros).
- Most database connectors have been migrated to a new (v2) connector architecture, which adds built-in SQL injection protection.
- The [new DataGrid visualization](https://help.revealbi.io/web/beta-features/#newdatagrid) (`newDataGrid` beta feature) now supports sorting, grouping, and filtering when attached to a paged data source, bringing it closer to parity with the classic grid's paging experience.

> - Linear and radial gauge visualizations have an updated UI and are no longer in beta.

Reviewer: Bullet graph was updated as well

Author: addressed

# Release Notes

## 2.1.0 (July 7th, 2026)

### Breaking Changes

- Removed the legacy `$.ig` and `RevealApi` global objects.

### New Features

- New data source: SQLite, with support for custom queries.
- New data source: Cube.

> - New data source: DuckDB.

Reviewer 2: DuckDB supports:
- File databases
- MotherDuck databases
- Custom queries
- Stored procedures (macros in DuckDB)

Author: addressed

- Most database connectors have been migrated to a new (v2) connector architecture, which adds built-in SQL injection protection.
- The [new DataGrid visualization](https://help.revealbi.io/web/beta-features/#newdatagrid) (`newDataGrid` beta feature) now supports sorting, grouping, and filtering when attached to a paged data source, bringing it closer to parity with the classic grid's paging experience.
- Linear and radial gauge visualizations have an updated UI and are no longer in beta.
- Additional keyboard navigation and accessibility improvements for Pivot, Grid, and Sparkline visualizations, plus full keyboard navigation support in Edit Mode.
- SQL Server data source: added support for the `ApplicationIntent=ReadOnly` and `MultiSubnetFailover` connection options.
- Updated date filter UI. "Add Filter" is now hidden when all fields are already filtered.
- `additionalHeadersProvider` now supports an async implementation:

```typescript
RevealSdkSettings.setAdditionalHeadersProvider(async (url: string) => {
  const token = await refreshTokenIfNeeded();
  return { Authorization: `Bearer ${token}` };
});
```

Updated method signature:

> 

Reviewer 3: we don't need to share this method signature publicly. It adds no vale to the customer and may actually confuse them

Author: Addressed

### Bugs

#### All Platforms
- Fixed a crash in the TreeMap visualization caused by stale interaction data.
- Fixed a missing tooltip in the Pivot visualization.
- Fixed field-based conditional formatting for hidden and calculated fields.
- Fixed the Grid visualization not showing its "no data" message.
- Fixed hierarchy expansion when consecutive levels contain identical values.
- Custom visualizations are no longer hidden when the context menu is open.
- Fixed `RevealView` reverting a dashboard to its pre-edit state.
- Fixed negative percentage formatting.
- Fixed selected date values not propagating correctly during XMLA-to-tabular conversion.
- The "Filter By" context menu option is now hidden when already filtered by that field.
- Fixed incorrect query results when filtering by a hidden value field.
- Fixed several issues with filter value selection.
- Fixed data ranges in bubble chart Excel exports.
- Fixed image export incorrectly restoring a stray dashboard close button.
- Fixed loading XLSX files that use prefixed namespaces or absolute relationship targets.
- Fixed filter and maximize issues in Embedded Dashboard.
- Improved maximize reliability.

#### Java

> - Fixed BigQuery data source item serialization. CHECK THE PR/ISSUE.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue that would cause an error when defining BigQuery data source items in Java.
```

Author: Addressed
